README.md, before:

# pulumi-example-aws-python
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python)
[![versionansible](https://img.shields.io/badge/pulumi-1.3.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/index.html)
[![versionawscli](https://img.shields.io/badge/awscli-1.16.255-brightgreen.svg)](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)

Example project playing around with Pulumi

### What is Pulumi?

In contrast to other Infrastructure-as-Code tools, Pulumi uses real programming languages instead of YAML to define infrastructure code:

> At the center of Pulumi is an open-source cloud object model & an evaluation runtime (https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/)

This cloud object model is language agnostic to support multiple programming languages at the same time ([currently Node.js/JavaScript & Python. And there's a Preview for Go and the possibility to implement your own Language](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/languages/)). The evaluation runtime is knows about the cloud resources and how to plan, manage & execute them.

Pulumi Project is a folder with a `Pulumi.yaml` - create with `pulumi new`. 

Pulumi Stacks are like stages (dev, stage, production).


## Prerequisites

#### Install Pulumi

https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/install/

Install Pulumi SDK on MacOS:

`brew install pulumi`

or on Linux:

`curl -fsSL https://get.pulumi.com | sh`


If you choose to use Python as your preferred language for Pulumi, you should also install Python:

`brew install python`


#### Configure AWS credentials 

Like already described in https://github.com/jonashackt/molecule-ansible-docker-vagrant#install--configure-aws-cli, we need to do the following:


First we need to sure to have the [AWS CLI installed](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html). We can do this via Python pip package manager with (or any other system package manager):
 
```
pip3 install awscli
```
 
Now we should check, if AWS CLI was successfully installed. The `aws --version` command should print out sometime like:

```
$ aws --version
aws-cli/1.16.255 Python/3.7.4 Darwin/18.7.0 botocore/1.12.245
```

Now configure the AWS CLI to use the correct credentials. [According to the AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html#cli-quick-configuration), the fastest way to accomplish that is to run `aws configure`:

```
$ aws configure
AWS Access Key ID [None]: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
Default region name [None]: eu-central-1
Default output format [None]: json
```


## An example Project with AWS & Python

Let's create an Pulumi example project using Python and AWS. Therefore create an empty directory:

```
mkdir pulumi-aws-python-example
cd pulumi-aws-python-example
```

Now create a Pulumi project with: `pulumi new aws-python`. Then you're promted to login to Pulumi (for more info about that, visit https://www.pulumi.com/docs/troubleshooting/faq/#how-does-pulumi-depend-on-pulumi-com), if you run `pulumi new` for the first time:

```
Manage your Pulumi stacks by logging in.
Run `pulumi login --help` for alternative login options.
Enter your access token from https://app.pulumi.com/account/tokens
    or hit <ENTER> to log in using your browser                   :
```

I used GitHub to authorize Pulumi Cloud in my Browser:

![pulumi-cli-login](screenshots/pulumi-cli-login.png)

Now the console needs our attention again - Pulumi want's to know about __project name__, __description__, __stack name__:

```
  Welcome to Pulumi!

  Pulumi  helps you create, deploy, and manage infrastructure on any cloud using
  your favorite language. You can get started today with Pulumi at:

      https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/

This command will walk you through creating a new Pulumi project.

Enter a value or leave blank to accept the (default), and press <ENTER>.
Press ^C at any time to quit.

project name: (pulumi-aws) pulumi-example-aws-python
project description: (A minimal AWS Python Pulumi program)
Created project 'pulumi-example-aws-python'

Please enter your desired stack name.
To create a stack in an organization, use the format <org-name>/<stack-name> (e.g. `acmecorp/dev`).
stack name: (dev) jonashackt/dev
Created stack 'dev'
```

Then in case of AWS Pulumi needs a region to be used. For me I use `eu-central-1`:

```
aws:region: The AWS region to deploy into: (us-east-1) eu-central-1
Saved config
```

Now we're already finished:

```
Your new project is ready to go! ✨

To perform an initial deployment, run the following commands:

   1. virtualenv -p python3 venv
   2. source venv/bin/activate
   3. pip3 install -r requirements.txt

Then, run 'pulumi up'
```

Now you can also login to pulumi.com - I use `jonashackt` as the organisation, so you'll find my projects under: https://app.pulumi.com/jonashackt

![pulumi-com-project-overview](screenshots/pulumi-com-project-overview.png)



### A clean Python environment with virtualenv

Before running `pulumi up`, you should install [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/installation/), which is basically a project local dependency management for pip packages (this is also referred to as a good Python package dependency user style). If you're a Maven, Gradle, NPM user - think of a project local directory, where the all your dependecies are downloaded:

```
# On MacOS or Windows, simply do a
pip install virtualenv

# be more careful on Linux distros, e.g. use your distro's package manager for installation or use pip install --user virtualenv
```

Now we have to configure `virtualenv` to create the virtual pip environment - this will create a new directory `venv` inside your project folder:

```
virtualenv -p python3 venv
```

The `-p python3` option tells virtualenv to use the Python interpreter with version 3. Now we also need to `activate` the new isolated Python environment - and virtualenv provides us with a script to do so:

```
source venv/bin/activate
# OR .venv/bin/activate
```

`source` is just a synonym for `.`, which simply [executes something on a shell](https://superuser.com/a/46146/497608). To run a check, if you're using the isolated virtualenv's Python now, run a `pip3 -V`. It should contain the correct path to your project:

```
$ pip3 -V
pip 19.2.3 from /Users/jonashecht/dev/pulumi-aws/venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pip (python 3.7)

# whereas the non-isolated Python would give something like this (on MacOS using brew):
pip 19.1.1 from /usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pip (python 3.7)
# then something would be missing - try some research on https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/
```

Finally we are now installing this Pulumi project's dependencies with:

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```


### Pulumi first run

Now we should have everything prepared to run Pulumi with `pulumi up`:

```
(venv)  jonashecht  ~/dev/pulumi-aws   master ●  pulumi up
Please choose a stack, or create a new one: dev
Previewing update (dev):

     Type                 Name                           Plan
 +   pulumi:pulumi:Stack  pulumi-example-aws-python-dev  create
 +   └─ aws:s3:Bucket     my-bucket                      create

Resources:
    + 2 to create

Do you want to perform this update? details
+ pulumi:pulumi:Stack: (create)
    [urn=urn:pulumi:dev::pulumi-example-aws-python::pulumi:pulumi:Stack::pulumi-example-aws-python-dev]
    + aws:s3/bucket:Bucket: (create)
        [urn=urn:pulumi:dev::pulumi-example-aws-python::aws:s3/bucket:Bucket::my-bucket]
        [provider=urn:pulumi:dev::pulumi-example-aws-python::pulumi:providers:aws::default_1_5_0::04da6b54-80e4-46f7-96ec-b56ff0331ba9]
        acl         : "private"
        bucket      : "my-bucket-58790f7"
        forceDestroy: false

Do you want to perform this update?
```

After choosing a stack to perform the action on, Pulumi outlines everything it will do when we choose `yes` to perform the update. Open the `details` to see everything in much more depth.

Then choose `yes` and Pulumi runs the update:

```
Updating (dev):

     Type                 Name                           Status
 +   pulumi:pulumi:Stack  pulumi-example-aws-python-dev  created
 +   └─ aws:s3:Bucket     my-bucket                      created

Outputs:
    bucket_name: "my-bucket-33cba3e"

Resources:
    + 2 created

Duration: 9s

Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python/dev/updates/1
```

You can have a look at the link provided and you'll see your Pulumi console:

![pulumi-first-run](screenshots/pulumi-first-run.png)

The example project creates a S3 bucket, which you could also check out by clicking onto the `Open in AWS console` button:

![aws-s3-console](screenshots/aws-s3-console.png)

That's it: this is our first Cloud resource created by Pulumi!



### A comparable Use Case

As we want to compare Pulumi (in terms of apples vs. bananas ;P ) with other Infrastructure-as-Code tools like Ansible. Therefore we should pick a use case like the one in https://github.com/jonashackt/molecule-ansible-docker-vagrant - which is "Installing Docker on an EC2 Ubuntu box".

Let's delete the initial stack and S3 bucket first. To destroy an existing stack and its resources, simply run:

```
pulumi destroy
```

##### Build a common ground: Create an EC2 instance with SSH access

Let's have a look into the tutorials: https://www.pulumi.com/docs/tutorials/aws/ec2-webserver/

and the Pulumi API reference -> https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/python/pulumi_aws/

Yeah, now we should be able to setup our first EC2 instance with Pulumi. Open [__main__.py](__main__.py) in your IDE and add some code:

```
import pulumi
import pulumi_aws as aws
from pulumi_aws import ec2

# AMI image configuration
ec2_image_id = 'ami-0cc0a36f626a4fdf5'
ec2_image_owner = '099720109477'
ec2_instance_size = 't2.micro'
ec2_instance_name = 'aws-ec2-ubuntu'

# Lets use Pulumi to get the AMI image
pulumi_ami = aws.get_ami(
                    filters = [{ "name": "image-id", "values": [ec2_image_id]}],
                    owners  = [ec2_image_owner])

# Create a EC2 security group
ssh_port = 22

pulumi_security_group = ec2.SecurityGroup(
                            'pulumi-secgrp',
                            description = 'Enable HTTP access',
                            ingress = [
                                { 'protocol': 'tcp', 'from_port': ssh_port, 'to_port': ssh_port, 'cidr_blocks': ['0.0.0.0/0'] }
                            ]
)

# Create EC2 instance
ec2_instance = ec2.Instance(
                    ec2_instance_name,
                    instance_type = ec2_instance_size,
                    security_groups = [pulumi_security_group.name],
                    ami = pulumi_ami.id
)

pulumi.export('publicIp', ec2_instance.public_ip)
pulumi.export('publicHostName', ec2_instance.public_dns)


```

> Maybe you find yourself lost in the Pulumi documentation like me: Many things are simply not available right now. E.g. the Pulumi AWS provider is derived from the Terraform AWS provider - so have a look there: https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/index.html!
> If you look for aws.get_ami special `owners` parameter, have a look at https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/d/ami.html

Let's first choose an AMI as described in [Choosing an Ubuntu 18.04 AMI](https://github.com/jonashackt/molecule-ansible-docker-vagrant#choosing-an-ubuntu-1804-ami) using the [ubuntu Amazon EC2 AMI Locator](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/locator/ec2/). Combine your AWS region and the desired Ubuntu version and type this into the search box:

```
eu-central-1 18.04 LTS
```

Now choose the latest AMI id with the Instance Type `hvm:ebs-ssd` like this: `ami-0cc0a36f626a4fdf5`

> Preventing the "Exception: invoke of aws:index/getAmi:getAmi failed: "owners": required field is not set ()"

If you're also just starting with Pulumi, you may also wonder if we __really need__ the `owners` parameter in the module `aws.get_ami`.

Well - this one is required - have a look at https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/d/ami.html#owners. So to prevent the mentioned Exception we need to also provide the valid `owners` id for the Ubuntu image. Having a look at the AWS docs, these ids could be found occasionally: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/de_de/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/finding-an-ami.html#finding-quick-start-ami

The Ubuntu owners id is `099720109477` for example, the RedHat AMIs need the `309956199498` and so on. Amazon images simply need `amazon` or `aws-marketplace`, Microsoft images have `microsoft` also.

Now give your Pulumi code a try and fire it up with `pulumi up`. This should give something like:

```
$ pulumi up
Previewing update (dev):

     Type                      Name                           Plan
 +   pulumi:pulumi:Stack       pulumi-example-aws-python-dev  create
 +   ├─ aws:ec2:SecurityGroup  pulumi-secgrp                  create
 +   └─ aws:ec2:Instance       aws-ec2-ubuntu                 create

Resources:
    + 3 to create

Do you want to perform this update? yes
Updating (dev):

     Type                      Name                           Status
 +   pulumi:pulumi:Stack       pulumi-example-aws-python-dev  created
 +   ├─ aws:ec2:SecurityGroup  pulumi-secgrp                  created
 +   └─ aws:ec2:Instance       aws-ec2-ubuntu                 created

Outputs:
    publicHostName: "ec2-3-120-32-194.eu-central-1.compute.amazonaws.com"
    publicIp      : "3.120.32.194"

Resources:
    + 3 created

Duration: 33s

Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python/dev/updates/3
```

Have a look into your AWS management console and you should see the new instance:

![first-ec2-instance-running](screenshots/first-ec2-instance-running.png)


On console you can also [access the variables exported](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/python/pulumi/#stack-exports%C2%B6) with `pulumi.export` like:

```
$ pulumi stack output publicHostName
ec2-3-120-235-112.eu-central-1.compute.amazonaws.com

# or

$ pulumi stack output publicIp
3.120.235.112
```


### Run Pulumi with Travis

Now that we're able to run our Pulumi code against AWS, we should also configure Travis to do the job for us every time we push our code.

Most of the needed parts on how to execute a Python library on Travis to connect to AWS has been already described here: https://github.com/jonashackt/molecule-ansible-docker-vagrant#use-travisci-to-execute-molecule-with-ec2-infrastructure


##### Configure TravisCI to connect to AWS & app.pulumi.com

So let's create a [.travis.yml](.travis.yml), that doesn't contain so much in the first place:

```yaml
sudo: false
language: python

env:
- BOTO_CONFIG="/dev/null"
```

After that, we should activate TravisCI for our project at https://travis-ci.org/account/repositories. 

And we should already now think about the needed Pulumi login to `app.pulumi.com`, which could be done by defining the `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` variable, that needs to contain a correct access token. To create a Pulumi access token, head over to https://app.pulumi.com/yourUserNameHere/settings/tokens and click on `NEW ACCESS TOKEN`:

![app-pulumi-com-access-token](screenshots/app-pulumi-com-access-token.png)

Now we can switch over to the settings page of our Travis configuration at https://travis-ci.org/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python/settings and create the needed environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY` & `AWS_SECRET_KEY` for the `aws configure set` command and the `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` variable:

![travis-env-aws-pulumi-access-vars](screenshots/travis-env-aws-pulumi-access-vars.png)


Inside the `install` section of our `.travis.yml` we are now able to install and configure the boto packages & the AWS CLI, which Pulumi later uses to communicate with AWS:

```yaml
install:
# install AWS related packages
- pip install boto boto3
- pip install --upgrade awscli
# configure AWS CLI
- aws configure set aws_access_key_id $AWS_ACCESS_KEY
- aws configure set aws_secret_access_key $AWS_SECRET_KEY
- aws configure set default.region eu-central-1
# show AWS CLI config
- aws configure list
```

To avoid [the knows problems with boto (the AWS python client) on Travis](aus dem Weg gehen), we already defined `sudo: false` and configured the `BOTO_CONFIG="/dev/null"` environment variable directly inside our [.travis.yml](.travis.yml). With that our AWS communication should work like a charm.


##### Install & configure Pulumi on TravisCI

Now we should also install the Pulumi SDK - as we already did locally. This time, we use Python's pip to do that for us: 

```
install:
...
  # Install Pulumi SDK with the installation script from https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/install/#installation-script
  - curl -fsSL https://get.pulumi.com | sh
  - pulumi version
  # Install virtualenv for later usage
  - pip install virtualenv
```

As you see, we also install `virtualenv` for later usage.

Logging in to app.pulumi.com should be easy now:

```
install:
...
# login to app.pulumi.com with the predefined PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN
- pulumi login
```

##### Fire up Pulumi on TravisCI

Now we're nearly there! All that's left, is to configure our isolated Python environment using `virtualenv`:

```yaml
script:
  # Configure isolated Python environment
  - virtualenv -p python3 venv
  - source venv/bin/activate
  - pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

The final step then is to fire up Pulumi (and destroy the infrastructure again after it was created to prevent unnecessary costs):

```yaml
script:
...
  # Run Pulumi unattended
  - pulumi up --yes
  # After everything has been created, we should also destroy the infrastructure again
  - pulumi destroy --yes
```

Mind the `--yes` switch at the end of the commands to automatically approve and perform the update/destruction after previewing it 




### Install Docker on EC2 instance

So EC2's running, now we want to install Docker on it. But is there a way on how to issue shell commands and the like with Pulumi?

There's this issue: https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/99 (still open...)







### Test-driven Development with Pulumi

https://www.pulumi.com/blog/testing-your-infrastructure-as-code-with-pulumi/


Testinfra??! Pytest


### Run a Dockerized application on AWS with Pulumi

Example app: https://github.com/jonashackt/spring-boot-vuejs

Pulumi API reference for the Pulumi Docker provider: https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/python/pulumi_docker/ (interestingly this Pulumi docker provider is derived from the [Terraform Docker provider](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-docker))

Second interesting point: The docs for the JavaScript/Typescript version of the Pulumi Docker provider are much nicer to view: https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/nodejs/pulumi/docker/



### Using AWS Fargate to run a Dockerized application



## Links

See example projects https://github.com/pulumi/examples

https://www.pulumi.com/docs/tutorials/aws/ec2-webserver/

https://blog.scottlowe.org/2019/05/05/a-sandbox-for-learning-pulumi/

Commit message:

Preventing the pulumi not found error with adding Pulumi executable to the path

README.md, after:

# pulumi-example-aws-python
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python)
[![versionansible](https://img.shields.io/badge/pulumi-1.3.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/index.html)
[![versionawscli](https://img.shields.io/badge/awscli-1.16.255-brightgreen.svg)](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/)

Example project playing around with Pulumi

### What is Pulumi?

In contrast to other Infrastructure-as-Code tools, Pulumi uses real programming languages instead of YAML to define infrastructure code:

> At the center of Pulumi is an open-source cloud object model & an evaluation runtime (https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/concepts/)

This cloud object model is language agnostic to support multiple programming languages at the same time ([currently Node.js/JavaScript & Python. And there's a Preview for Go and the possibility to implement your own Language](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/intro/languages/)). The evaluation runtime is knows about the cloud resources and how to plan, manage & execute them.

Pulumi Project is a folder with a `Pulumi.yaml` - create with `pulumi new`. 

Pulumi Stacks are like stages (dev, stage, production).


## Prerequisites

#### Install Pulumi

https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/install/

Install Pulumi SDK on MacOS:

`brew install pulumi`

or on Linux:

`curl -fsSL https://get.pulumi.com | sh`


If you choose to use Python as your preferred language for Pulumi, you should also install Python:

`brew install python`


#### Configure AWS credentials 

Like already described in https://github.com/jonashackt/molecule-ansible-docker-vagrant#install--configure-aws-cli, we need to do the following:


First we need to sure to have the [AWS CLI installed](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-install.html). We can do this via Python pip package manager with (or any other system package manager):
 
```
pip3 install awscli
```
 
Now we should check, if AWS CLI was successfully installed. The `aws --version` command should print out sometime like:

```
$ aws --version
aws-cli/1.16.255 Python/3.7.4 Darwin/18.7.0 botocore/1.12.245
```

Now configure the AWS CLI to use the correct credentials. [According to the AWS docs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-configure.html#cli-quick-configuration), the fastest way to accomplish that is to run `aws configure`:

```
$ aws configure
AWS Access Key ID [None]: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
AWS Secret Access Key [None]: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
Default region name [None]: eu-central-1
Default output format [None]: json
```


## An example Project with AWS & Python

Let's create an Pulumi example project using Python and AWS. Therefore create an empty directory:

```
mkdir pulumi-aws-python-example
cd pulumi-aws-python-example
```

Now create a Pulumi project with: `pulumi new aws-python`. Then you're promted to login to Pulumi (for more info about that, visit https://www.pulumi.com/docs/troubleshooting/faq/#how-does-pulumi-depend-on-pulumi-com), if you run `pulumi new` for the first time:

```
Manage your Pulumi stacks by logging in.
Run `pulumi login --help` for alternative login options.
Enter your access token from https://app.pulumi.com/account/tokens
    or hit <ENTER> to log in using your browser                   :
```

I used GitHub to authorize Pulumi Cloud in my Browser:

![pulumi-cli-login](screenshots/pulumi-cli-login.png)

Now the console needs our attention again - Pulumi want's to know about __project name__, __description__, __stack name__:

```
  Welcome to Pulumi!

  Pulumi  helps you create, deploy, and manage infrastructure on any cloud using
  your favorite language. You can get started today with Pulumi at:

      https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/

This command will walk you through creating a new Pulumi project.

Enter a value or leave blank to accept the (default), and press <ENTER>.
Press ^C at any time to quit.

project name: (pulumi-aws) pulumi-example-aws-python
project description: (A minimal AWS Python Pulumi program)
Created project 'pulumi-example-aws-python'

Please enter your desired stack name.
To create a stack in an organization, use the format <org-name>/<stack-name> (e.g. `acmecorp/dev`).
stack name: (dev) jonashackt/dev
Created stack 'dev'
```

Then in case of AWS Pulumi needs a region to be used. For me I use `eu-central-1`:

```
aws:region: The AWS region to deploy into: (us-east-1) eu-central-1
Saved config
```

Now we're already finished:

```
Your new project is ready to go! ✨

To perform an initial deployment, run the following commands:

   1. virtualenv -p python3 venv
   2. source venv/bin/activate
   3. pip3 install -r requirements.txt

Then, run 'pulumi up'
```

Now you can also login to pulumi.com - I use `jonashackt` as the organisation, so you'll find my projects under: https://app.pulumi.com/jonashackt

![pulumi-com-project-overview](screenshots/pulumi-com-project-overview.png)



### A clean Python environment with virtualenv

Before running `pulumi up`, you should install [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/installation/), which is basically a project local dependency management for pip packages (this is also referred to as a good Python package dependency user style). If you're a Maven, Gradle, NPM user - think of a project local directory, where the all your dependecies are downloaded:

```
# On MacOS or Windows, simply do a
pip install virtualenv

# be more careful on Linux distros, e.g. use your distro's package manager for installation or use pip install --user virtualenv
```

Now we have to configure `virtualenv` to create the virtual pip environment - this will create a new directory `venv` inside your project folder:

```
virtualenv -p python3 venv
```

The `-p python3` option tells virtualenv to use the Python interpreter with version 3. Now we also need to `activate` the new isolated Python environment - and virtualenv provides us with a script to do so:

```
source venv/bin/activate
# OR .venv/bin/activate
```

`source` is just a synonym for `.`, which simply [executes something on a shell](https://superuser.com/a/46146/497608). To run a check, if you're using the isolated virtualenv's Python now, run a `pip3 -V`. It should contain the correct path to your project:

```
$ pip3 -V
pip 19.2.3 from /Users/jonashecht/dev/pulumi-aws/venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pip (python 3.7)

# whereas the non-isolated Python would give something like this (on MacOS using brew):
pip 19.1.1 from /usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pip (python 3.7)
# then something would be missing - try some research on https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/
```

Finally we are now installing this Pulumi project's dependencies with:

```
pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```


### Pulumi first run

Now we should have everything prepared to run Pulumi with `pulumi up`:

```
(venv)  jonashecht  ~/dev/pulumi-aws   master ●  pulumi up
Please choose a stack, or create a new one: dev
Previewing update (dev):

     Type                 Name                           Plan
 +   pulumi:pulumi:Stack  pulumi-example-aws-python-dev  create
 +   └─ aws:s3:Bucket     my-bucket                      create

Resources:
    + 2 to create

Do you want to perform this update? details
+ pulumi:pulumi:Stack: (create)
    [urn=urn:pulumi:dev::pulumi-example-aws-python::pulumi:pulumi:Stack::pulumi-example-aws-python-dev]
    + aws:s3/bucket:Bucket: (create)
        [urn=urn:pulumi:dev::pulumi-example-aws-python::aws:s3/bucket:Bucket::my-bucket]
        [provider=urn:pulumi:dev::pulumi-example-aws-python::pulumi:providers:aws::default_1_5_0::04da6b54-80e4-46f7-96ec-b56ff0331ba9]
        acl         : "private"
        bucket      : "my-bucket-58790f7"
        forceDestroy: false

Do you want to perform this update?
```

After choosing a stack to perform the action on, Pulumi outlines everything it will do when we choose `yes` to perform the update. Open the `details` to see everything in much more depth.

Then choose `yes` and Pulumi runs the update:

```
Updating (dev):

     Type                 Name                           Status
 +   pulumi:pulumi:Stack  pulumi-example-aws-python-dev  created
 +   └─ aws:s3:Bucket     my-bucket                      created

Outputs:
    bucket_name: "my-bucket-33cba3e"

Resources:
    + 2 created

Duration: 9s

Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python/dev/updates/1
```

You can have a look at the link provided and you'll see your Pulumi console:

![pulumi-first-run](screenshots/pulumi-first-run.png)

The example project creates a S3 bucket, which you could also check out by clicking onto the `Open in AWS console` button:

![aws-s3-console](screenshots/aws-s3-console.png)

That's it: this is our first Cloud resource created by Pulumi!



### A comparable Use Case

As we want to compare Pulumi (in terms of apples vs. bananas ;P ) with other Infrastructure-as-Code tools like Ansible. Therefore we should pick a use case like the one in https://github.com/jonashackt/molecule-ansible-docker-vagrant - which is "Installing Docker on an EC2 Ubuntu box".

Let's delete the initial stack and S3 bucket first. To destroy an existing stack and its resources, simply run:

```
pulumi destroy
```

##### Build a common ground: Create an EC2 instance with SSH access

Let's have a look into the tutorials: https://www.pulumi.com/docs/tutorials/aws/ec2-webserver/

and the Pulumi API reference -> https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/python/pulumi_aws/

Yeah, now we should be able to setup our first EC2 instance with Pulumi. Open [__main__.py](__main__.py) in your IDE and add some code:

```
import pulumi
import pulumi_aws as aws
from pulumi_aws import ec2

# AMI image configuration
ec2_image_id = 'ami-0cc0a36f626a4fdf5'
ec2_image_owner = '099720109477'
ec2_instance_size = 't2.micro'
ec2_instance_name = 'aws-ec2-ubuntu'

# Lets use Pulumi to get the AMI image
pulumi_ami = aws.get_ami(
                    filters = [{ "name": "image-id", "values": [ec2_image_id]}],
                    owners  = [ec2_image_owner])

# Create a EC2 security group
ssh_port = 22

pulumi_security_group = ec2.SecurityGroup(
                            'pulumi-secgrp',
                            description = 'Enable HTTP access',
                            ingress = [
                                { 'protocol': 'tcp', 'from_port': ssh_port, 'to_port': ssh_port, 'cidr_blocks': ['0.0.0.0/0'] }
                            ]
)

# Create EC2 instance
ec2_instance = ec2.Instance(
                    ec2_instance_name,
                    instance_type = ec2_instance_size,
                    security_groups = [pulumi_security_group.name],
                    ami = pulumi_ami.id
)

pulumi.export('publicIp', ec2_instance.public_ip)
pulumi.export('publicHostName', ec2_instance.public_dns)


```

> Maybe you find yourself lost in the Pulumi documentation like me: Many things are simply not available right now. E.g. the Pulumi AWS provider is derived from the Terraform AWS provider - so have a look there: https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/index.html!
> If you look for aws.get_ami special `owners` parameter, have a look at https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/d/ami.html

Let's first choose an AMI as described in [Choosing an Ubuntu 18.04 AMI](https://github.com/jonashackt/molecule-ansible-docker-vagrant#choosing-an-ubuntu-1804-ami) using the [ubuntu Amazon EC2 AMI Locator](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/locator/ec2/). Combine your AWS region and the desired Ubuntu version and type this into the search box:

```
eu-central-1 18.04 LTS
```

Now choose the latest AMI id with the Instance Type `hvm:ebs-ssd` like this: `ami-0cc0a36f626a4fdf5`

> Preventing the "Exception: invoke of aws:index/getAmi:getAmi failed: "owners": required field is not set ()"

If you're also just starting with Pulumi, you may also wonder if we __really need__ the `owners` parameter in the module `aws.get_ami`.

Well - this one is required - have a look at https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/d/ami.html#owners. So to prevent the mentioned Exception we need to also provide the valid `owners` id for the Ubuntu image. Having a look at the AWS docs, these ids could be found occasionally: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/de_de/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/finding-an-ami.html#finding-quick-start-ami

The Ubuntu owners id is `099720109477` for example, the RedHat AMIs need the `309956199498` and so on. Amazon images simply need `amazon` or `aws-marketplace`, Microsoft images have `microsoft` also.

Now give your Pulumi code a try and fire it up with `pulumi up`. This should give something like:

```
$ pulumi up
Previewing update (dev):

     Type                      Name                           Plan
 +   pulumi:pulumi:Stack       pulumi-example-aws-python-dev  create
 +   ├─ aws:ec2:SecurityGroup  pulumi-secgrp                  create
 +   └─ aws:ec2:Instance       aws-ec2-ubuntu                 create

Resources:
    + 3 to create

Do you want to perform this update? yes
Updating (dev):

     Type                      Name                           Status
 +   pulumi:pulumi:Stack       pulumi-example-aws-python-dev  created
 +   ├─ aws:ec2:SecurityGroup  pulumi-secgrp                  created
 +   └─ aws:ec2:Instance       aws-ec2-ubuntu                 created

Outputs:
    publicHostName: "ec2-3-120-32-194.eu-central-1.compute.amazonaws.com"
    publicIp      : "3.120.32.194"

Resources:
    + 3 created

Duration: 33s

Permalink: https://app.pulumi.com/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python/dev/updates/3
```

Have a look into your AWS management console and you should see the new instance:

![first-ec2-instance-running](screenshots/first-ec2-instance-running.png)


On console you can also [access the variables exported](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/python/pulumi/#stack-exports%C2%B6) with `pulumi.export` like:

```
$ pulumi stack output publicHostName
ec2-3-120-235-112.eu-central-1.compute.amazonaws.com

# or

$ pulumi stack output publicIp
3.120.235.112
```


### Run Pulumi with Travis

Now that we're able to run our Pulumi code against AWS, we should also configure Travis to do the job for us every time we push our code.

Most of the needed parts on how to execute a Python library on Travis to connect to AWS has been already described here: https://github.com/jonashackt/molecule-ansible-docker-vagrant#use-travisci-to-execute-molecule-with-ec2-infrastructure


##### Configure TravisCI to connect to AWS & app.pulumi.com

So let's create a [.travis.yml](.travis.yml), that doesn't contain so much in the first place:

```yaml
sudo: false
language: python

env:
- BOTO_CONFIG="/dev/null"
```

After that, we should activate TravisCI for our project at https://travis-ci.org/account/repositories. 

And we should already now think about the needed Pulumi login to `app.pulumi.com`, which could be done by defining the `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` variable, that needs to contain a correct access token. To create a Pulumi access token, head over to https://app.pulumi.com/yourUserNameHere/settings/tokens and click on `NEW ACCESS TOKEN`:

![app-pulumi-com-access-token](screenshots/app-pulumi-com-access-token.png)

Now we can switch over to the settings page of our Travis configuration at https://travis-ci.org/jonashackt/pulumi-example-aws-python/settings and create the needed environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY` & `AWS_SECRET_KEY` for the `aws configure set` command and the `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` variable:

![travis-env-aws-pulumi-access-vars](screenshots/travis-env-aws-pulumi-access-vars.png)


Inside the `install` section of our `.travis.yml` we are now able to install and configure the boto packages & the AWS CLI, which Pulumi later uses to communicate with AWS:

```yaml
install:
# install AWS related packages
- pip install boto boto3
- pip install --upgrade awscli
# configure AWS CLI
- aws configure set aws_access_key_id $AWS_ACCESS_KEY
- aws configure set aws_secret_access_key $AWS_SECRET_KEY
- aws configure set default.region eu-central-1
# show AWS CLI config
- aws configure list
```

To avoid [the knows problems with boto (the AWS python client) on Travis](aus dem Weg gehen), we already defined `sudo: false` and configured the `BOTO_CONFIG="/dev/null"` environment variable directly inside our [.travis.yml](.travis.yml). With that our AWS communication should work like a charm.


##### Install & configure Pulumi on TravisCI

Now we should also install the Pulumi SDK - as we already did locally. This time, we use Python's pip to do that for us: 

```
install:
...
  # Install Pulumi SDK with the installation script from https://www.pulumi.com/docs/get-started/install/#installation-script
  - curl -fsSL https://get.pulumi.com | sh
  # Add Pulumi to Travis' PATH so the executable could be found
  - export PATH=$PATH:/home/travis/.pulumi/bin
  - pulumi version
  # Install virtualenv for later usage
  - pip install virtualenv
```

As you see, we install `virtualenv` for later usage. Also wwe add the Pulumi executable to the Travis build environments' PATH, otherwise we run into `pulumi: command not found` errors.

Logging in to app.pulumi.com should be easy now:

```
install:
...
# login to app.pulumi.com with the predefined PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN
- pulumi login
```

##### Fire up Pulumi on TravisCI

Now we're nearly there! All that's left, is to configure our isolated Python environment using `virtualenv`:

```yaml
script:
  # Configure isolated Python environment
  - virtualenv -p python3 venv
  - source venv/bin/activate
  - pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```

The final step then is to fire up Pulumi (and destroy the infrastructure again after it was created to prevent unnecessary costs):

```yaml
script:
...
  # Run Pulumi unattended
  - pulumi up --yes
  # After everything has been created, we should also destroy the infrastructure again
  - pulumi destroy --yes
```

Mind the `--yes` switch at the end of the commands to automatically approve and perform the update/destruction after previewing it 




### Install Docker on EC2 instance

So EC2's running, now we want to install Docker on it. But is there a way on how to issue shell commands and the like with Pulumi?

There's this issue: https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi/issues/99 (still open...)







### Test-driven Development with Pulumi

https://www.pulumi.com/blog/testing-your-infrastructure-as-code-with-pulumi/


Testinfra??! Pytest


### Run a Dockerized application on AWS with Pulumi

Example app: https://github.com/jonashackt/spring-boot-vuejs

Pulumi API reference for the Pulumi Docker provider: https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/python/pulumi_docker/ (interestingly this Pulumi docker provider is derived from the [Terraform Docker provider](https://github.com/terraform-providers/terraform-provider-docker))

Second interesting point: The docs for the JavaScript/Typescript version of the Pulumi Docker provider are much nicer to view: https://www.pulumi.com/docs/reference/pkg/nodejs/pulumi/docker/



### Using AWS Fargate to run a Dockerized application



## Links

See example projects https://github.com/pulumi/examples

https://www.pulumi.com/docs/tutorials/aws/ec2-webserver/

https://blog.scottlowe.org/2019/05/05/a-sandbox-for-learning-pulumi/
